CS4641 Proposal

Introduction:
The stock market is becoming one of the most well-known and studied financial markets of the modern day. Despite its complexity and unpredictability, it has allowed people to create retirement funds, pensions, investment accounts, and several other accounts that help most people grow their overall wealth. While hedge funds often dominate the financial world, our goal is to help the everyday trader use machine learning to gain a helpful hand when it comes to trading on the more popular stocks.

Literature Review:
Gabriel:
Stock prices are often challenging to predict due to various factors such as the economy, a company's financial performance, and natural disasters. People can utilize techniques like neural networks and algorithms to help with the unpredictability. With data from places like Yahoo Finance and preprocessing the data, one can make successful machine learning algorithms to make accurate predictions.

Aayush:


Dataset Description: 
We gathered information from datasets in Kaggle, Yahoo Finance, and Bloomberg. We are going to look at some of the more popular stocks such as Apple, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, Tesla, Meta, Berkshire Hathaway, JPMorgan, and Disney. We will begin by analyzing the opening and closing prices to determine whether the price ended higher or lower than the market open for the day.



Problem/Motivation:
The problem we are trying to solve is the difficulty of predicting financial markets. With financial institutions having more resources at their disposal, we aim to use machine learning algorithms to help everyday traders and day traders achieve their financial goals.



Methods:
Data Preprocessing: 
Normalization: We are going to find the means, standard deviations, open/closing prices of the stocks we have chosen.
Principal Component Analysis: Use Singular value decomposition to define principal components within our datasets.
Cross Validation Sets: Break up our components into training and validations sets by using Kaggle and Yahoo Finance to compare wih the Bloomberg data.

Models:
Linear Regression: Comparing variables.
Support Vector Machine (Supervised): Separating the data into different categories.
Neural Networks: Use Long Short Term Memory to find long term dependencies. 

Metrics: (Using confusion matrix)
Accuracy (correct prediction / total predictions) - Prediction reliability
Precision (correct “uptick” prediction / total “uptick” prediction) - Measures true/false positives
Recall (correct “uptick” prediction / actual “uptick” predictions) - Ability to determine upticks
  


References:
J. M. Sangeetha and K. J. Alfia, "Financial stock market forecast using evaluated linear regression based machine learning technique," Measurement: Sensors, vol. 31, p. 100950, Dec. 2023.

Parmar, Ishita, et al. “Stock Market Prediction Using Machine Learning.” 2018 First International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC), IEEE, 2018.


Datasets:
J. Crow, "Stock Market Dataset," Kaggle, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jacksoncrow/stock-market-dataset. [Accessed: 11-Jun-2024].

R. Roussi, "yfinance," GitHub, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ranaroussi/yfinance. [Accessed: 11-Jun-2024].

"Bloomberg Terminal," Georgia Tech Library, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.library.gatech.edu/bloomberg. [Accessed: 11-Jun-2024].
